"What's new in Svelte" January newsletter (#5827)
sveltejs/svelte: site/content/blog/2021-01-01-whats-new-in-svelte-january-2021.md

---
title: What's new in Svelte: January 2021
description: A Svelte-packed showcase to kick-off the new year!
author: Daniel Sandoval
authorURL: https://desandoval.net
---

> Happy new year from Svelte! In the last month we made progress on Sapper's upcoming minor release, fine-tuned our `SvelteComponent` typings, and seen some amazing apps, sites and libraries coming out in the showcase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Happy new year from Svelte! In the last month we made progress on Sapper's upcoming release, fine-tuned our `SvelteComponent` typings, and have seen some amazing apps, sites, and libraries coming out in the showcase.
```

## What's changed in Svelte?

A new minor release replaces the `SvelteComponent` class with a `SvelteComponentTyped` class. This renaming should help with backwards compatibility. We've updated [last month's blog post](https://svelte.dev/blog/whats-new-in-svelte-december-2020) to avoid any confusion with the name change.

If you're using `SvelteComponent` or the new `SvelteComponentTyped` in your project or library. Let us know what you're using it for and we'll add it to the showcase!

## What's going on in Sapper?

> More quality of life features are landing in the upcoming release every day. `0.29.0` includes new typescript definitions, fixes to scroll tracking and prefetching behavior, and improvements to the runtime router to support encoded query parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More quality of life features are landing in the upcoming release every day. `0.29.0` will include new TypeScript definitions, fixes to scroll tracking and prefetching behavior, and improvements to the runtime router to support encoded query parameters.
```

- [multris](https://multris.s1h.org/) is a multiplayer Tetris game. You can read about its development [here](https://blog.s1h.org/svelte-multiplayer-game/)
- [weather-ab](https://github.com/ganochenkodg/weather-ab) compares the archive of weather in different cities of the world. Indispensable for people thinking about migration
- [Game Nibs](https://gamenibs.com/) is a platform for gamers to find and share concise bite-sized bits of gaming advice, tips, tricks, screenshots, builds, and much more
- [Ora](https://github.com/cupcakearmy/ora) is an open source website tracking and limiting tool for Chrome and Firefox
- [vscode-dms](https://github.com/techsyndicate/vscode-dms) is a group direct messaging chat app for VSCode
- [Zero.2](https://zero.oleksandrdemian.tech/) is a math-based challenge game where you try to get to zero as quickly as possible
- [Octave Compass](https://octavecompass.com/2741) is a chord table and scale explorer for many popular musical scales
- [Infinite Walking Bass Generator 2](https://github.com/elialbert/infinitewalkingbass2) is an online music player that generates a unique walking bass line

> 

Reviewer 2: - [ListenAddict](https://www.listenaddict.com/) is a site that notifies you whenever a person has a new talk/interview on podcast

Reviewer 2: @d3sandoval - can you add this ^? I asked via Discord and you said to add it here. Thanks!

Author: added!

- [Accessible Svelte Transition](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QK_QuRL7nSo&feature=youtu.be) walks through `prefers-reduced-motion` to make svelte transitions more accessible
- [Svelte's module scripts explained](https://codechips.me/svelte-module-scripts-explained/) is a great introduction to the module context, a common Sapper pattern
- [Awesome Svelte](https://github.com/TheComputerM/awesome-svelte#readme) is a curated list of Svelte resources
- [.NET Core and Svelte](https://dev.to/cainux/net-core-and-svelte-f8o) explains how to get Svelte up and running with .NET Core
- [A la découverte de Svelte JS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLpx1Y8e1ek&list=PLff5I1miao9ZEUhpqkrOx7k8RGAZt-nm9) is a svelte tutorial series in French!
- [Svelte for React Developers](https://soshace.com/svelte-for-react-developers/) explains Svelte's core concepts to folks who are used to React
- [Building a Svelte Static Website with Smooth Page Transitions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dvPfmcGtmrI&feature=emb_title) shows how to build a static website with Svelte and add smooth page transitions using Three.js and GSAP.

> - [Using Apollo Client in Sapper](https://bjornlu.com/blog/using-apollo-client-in-sapper/) explains the "simplest" solutions to integrate the Apollog query client into Sapper

Author: Good find! Fixed!
